# Retail-company-called-Head-Rest-Ltd

## Intoduction
The data belongs to a retail company called Head Rest Ltd. Head Rest Ltd sells beds and sleep related accessories.The company has several stores, each of which has a home manager. Each stores sells 4 brands of products including his own brand, Head Rest Beds. Each brand offers products in the categories of mattresses, bed frames, pillows and bed linen. And finally , managers earn commission based on sales and their time in service.

## Contents
1. Aim
2. Data Sourcing
3. Data Modelling  & Measures
4.Exploratory Data Analysis
5. Data Visualisation
6. Conclusion

## Aim
A case study of a Bed Company provided by Coperate Finance Institute. This company sells beds and other bed accessories. We have data about sales, promotions, products, stores, and manager which we need to combine into one business overview dashboard. This will allow us to slice and dice to identofy key problems within the business. I also create a store performance dashboard to allow me to dive into individual store. We'll be able to see sales by day of week, and we 'll be  able to see the sales generated by each manager that worked in that store. I'll be using DAX to calculate percentages of total and time intelligence to compare sales across different periods.

## Data Modelling & Measures
The data has a fact table , 4 dimensional table and a Date table. A snowflake data model was used to build a connection arround the data.

## Exploratory Data Analysis
An EDA wa performed to get some insight from the data, which includes:
1. Which location from the store table has the higest and lowest sales?And also by comparing the margin % and the YoY Sales with the previous year(This is done by creating a measure using DAX fuction)
2. Which category from the products table has the highest and lowest Sales by margin % ?
3. Which brand from the product table has the highest Sales,Margin %, Share and YoY Margin?
4. What's the Sales trend by Month and Year ?
5.  Which Day of the week has the highest Sales ?
## Data Visualisation
After exploring the data, i then create a pivot table with KPIs, a visual on Excel (and Power Pivot)
## Conclusions
After analyzing the data from 2018-2019 , I finally came to a conclusion that:
- Las Vegas has the highest sales with a margin % of 30% compare to other locations from the store and also with the highest Unit of goods sold out from the locations
- Mattress has the highest sales from the category of products and also has the highest Pct on YoY sales of 106.7% increase compare to other catgories
- Only Bed has the highest sales from the brand of products and has the lowest Pct on YoY Margin of 10% decrease compare to other brands
- December has the highest Sales in 2018 and 2019 and likewise Sundays has the highest sales within the weeks throughout the year
- From the managers side for each store, Letisha has the highest Sales,Share, Days worked,  Sales/Day and Sales/Day YTD (YearToDay)
